“Just because something isn’t new doesn’t mean that it’s not outrageous.” [source] (https://www.newyorker.com/tech/annals-of-technology/cambridge-analytica-and-our-lives-inside-the-surveillance-machine)

I will begin with that quote. As more “Cambridge Analytica” (CA) are coming up, I fear that society will go numb, unless suddenly, people will no longer be passive information-receivers and actually take actions. Being surprised and worried is even better.

I was not surprised by CA back then. OK. I was shocked by the number of profiles violated, but not by the case itself as I had seen it coming anyway. The business of political campaigning has always been an inherent character of Taiwan’s messy political ecology, and I know this as one who grew up watching Taiwanese political commentary programs on TV as cartoons.

From a more traditional “profiling,” there are pre-election polls conducted via phone calls. I volunteered as a phone-person so I know that marks are made on the lists of phone numbers. Larger companies have been doing the same, but some produce fake poll results as one of the collaborating party’s mind-influencing tactics. The misleading results could be affecting people’s voting choices in the last minute. The phone-calling method should be updated since many count by households, and in modern days it’s mostly elderly staying home in the afternoons picking up telephones. But even if collected from the web, the armies of cyber warriors could still keep us from getting “accurate” voices from the general public.

I wonder what would happen if CA were to be applied on Taiwanese politics, with a common phenomenon of concern-trolling on Facebook in Taiwan. It is widely practiced especially among younger generations, and the fact is, while it may be obvious to many’s eyes, it is sometimes hard to tell from first read, what this particular person is really thinking. The entire thing is like an extended meme culture, almost. Then the question lies in if computational systems could also get the “meme” when analyzing. What I am saying is, although CA analyzed multiple characteristics of a person, it was still “simplifying” people and issues by labeling and categorizing human data. Many candidates had spent considerable $ in hiring companies like CA, but still failed to win.
