### Response to "Right to be forgotten" and "The End of Privacy As We Know It?"

* **Radio Lab Right to be forgotten**

I tried to sit down and take a moment just like what they did at the Cleveland.com conference room. But I failed. Who am I to “play god” as to decide who fails (for the rest of life)? Is it really up to us, who may be totally unrelated to the cases, to “forget” and “forgive?” The center question of this talk—whether there is a right to be forgotten—is followed by a bunch of “what if”s and each of the word can become a loophole that affects how society works. Those are the difficulties. We are talking about something far from a mere speeding ticket (without casualties, of course). I am just confused throughout. Where I’m from, records go with you as a part of a complete profile, and it is impossible for the officer case in the talk with the new department knowing nothing about the officer’s standing previously. It also sounds *funny* in the sense that even if Cleveland.com chooses to forget, others remember. Cleveland.com is not the world.

There are fundamental differences between records/data that are meant to be public from the very start, and data that is appealed or forced to become public for view. Meanwhile, a decision like this comprises at least two kinds of materials: the material of the story, and the material of the medium. These and other categorizations could fall into the trap of a word game. If there would be guidelines, are they to follow and obey absolutely, or to guide? If there is not a straightforward SOP for dealing with information put out there, then how do we not put ourselves under the shadows of having double (or multiple) standards that could be very much subjective? If the records/data are made public, should the decisions of making those records/data public, be made public as well? Perhaps there could never be hard guidelines, after all, we’re human beings, and we do what we are best of—comparing.

Is there anyone that cares whether at the end of the day this do justice to the victims? You could say that I have no mercy on those who have convicted the shouldn’t. The only other dilemma I can think of is if the person is accused and made up of his/her actions despite found out innocent afterwards.

* **The Daily The End of Privacy as we know it?**

I would started off by saying that I thought that I was listening to another episode of the Netflix series *Black Mirror*. The talk put out clear the benefits of ClearView.ai from a law-enforcement perspective, but could only brush through the surface of the risks exposed on humanity; they had no idea what it *could be*, and could only imagine. Yes, anyone can know you at anytime, and the word “any” is the most dangerous. An access given out is an access given out. The officer could continue to use the app from his colleagues’ accesses. What about the colleagues’ cousin? Some really rich guy trying to bribe the private entities that hold this domineering power? In that sense, it is a double-edged sword aiming at the same thing: safety.

This reminds me of an old joke saying that girls find your information faster than FBI does. If we take steps way back from a perspective of a person’s private experience, it is common for a person to “stalk” on someone on social media and the Internet to know more about another person, so as to decide if a person could (still) be a friend, a business partner, a potential other half, etc. Enlarge this experience a billion times, and it’s of ClearView’s abilities and risks. From the talk, ClearView seems to be still purpose-driven, but what if scenarios evolve to the point where a purpose is not needed? Let’s not forget that we seem to only be clear about the *users* purpose (to fight crimes for security), but not the inventor’s. I ponder on this statement as well as question for long, “How easy we can just try out a new technology?”

To be honest, by now I have become a bit tired (or helpless) in answering the kind of question for a possible regulation. Well, then why does it happen in the first place? What and how is it consider to be better solving the situation?

I can imagine in the near future any person could summon me like summoning an avatar appearing right in front of them, anywhere at anytime, because the person eventually becomes tired of having to read all the information he/she could get even at the snap of a finger.
