###Response to Shoshana Zuboff's talk on The Rise of Surveillance Capitalism

Surveillance is the adjective, and capitalism is the noun; together, surveillance capitalism from Zuboff’s perspective is based on our historical understanding of capitalism, but infused with the concept where the market extends to the private sectors of our lives, our private information and behavioral experiences become the trading items, and we, from being consumers that use the products, to “users" that consume the things consumed by the suppliers, in this case, the giants whom claim to be our friends and partners that strive for the better of our lives.

Has is become better? I may have added my own interpretation in how I think Zuboff defines the word “users.” Ultimately, we are consuming ourselves, and we perhaps are slowly becoming to realize and frustrate about this fact—if what we consume is the result of surveilled behaviors or our own (or “us,” basically, since our behaviors define who we are), then what are “they” selling us, what “else” are we getting out of this to prove that our lives have become better accordingly?

Zuboff talked about democracy, which is quite a large and vague sector. I do agree with her to the extent of raising awareness, but I am afraid that it could be the furthest we can go about real self-automation. An interesting thing is the “arc of resistance” she brought up where she believes things are shifting back to the domain of democracy. A lot of cultural phenomenons are going in this arc direction as well, see how old school style comes back as the new fashion and sub-culture for hipsters. That’s not too far away from this topic, actually. When she blurted out that people in the room either have children or ARE children, there seems to me a dodging of affirming the differences across generations, just because those may not experience too much of the “good old days.” Raising awareness to our own rights are all good, but if we do not have the power, how do we claim the “right of future tense”? The big lie that this is the only way digital life can work may be a big fact, at least for now. Any sudden changes could destroy us more than surveillance capitalism does. We are so used to it, that democracy means so much when we’re “only talking” about it (the sound of an intelligent laughter, maybe censored).  

  Privacy is really the smallest thing that we are losing.
  
  “What brought you out here?”
